{
    "file_name": "Primaire_LR_2_Alignmeet_Partie 6 - Les dépenses",
    "source_dataset": "0",
    "language": "1",
    "text_en": "P1: All three of you have mentioned an important aspect, which is the state of our public finances. The IMF has called on France to start streamlining its expenses from the year 2023. Let's try to be very concrete once again. Everyone always says that we're going to reduce expenses. Which expenses should be reduced, Eric Ciotti?\nEC: I'm going to surprise you. I want to start by lowering taxes. We are the country in the world, along with Denmark, that pays the highest taxes. We are playing in the World Cup in a few days. Every year, we win the World Cup of taxes. It's unbearable because it weighs on those who work or have worked, the employees, the retirees. You know that each French person pays on average until August 9th. Everything they earn goes to the State. It's the day of tax liberation.\nP2: Do we have the means?\nEC: We have the means, and we need to start there. We need to start by eliminating the death tax, the inheritance tax, which is an injustice. We need to eliminate the tax on tax, on fuels. We need to stop the burden of income tax on a few tens of percent of French people. The tax stranglehold needs to be lifted, so we don't end up in a situation where French people work solely for the State. We've always said the opposite, but we've never done it. Let's start by lowering taxes instead of handing out checks with no funds. It will cost less, sometimes maybe just as much, but it will be virtuous because it will give a huge boost to job creation, wealth, and growth. And then, either simultaneously or in parallel—I don't say at the same time, I've banned that from my vocabulary—we eliminate the 437 state agencies. We eliminate the administration today that serves no purpose. Let's look at education, hospitals. In essence, 1.2 million employees, barely 700,000 teachers, barely 700,000 healthcare workers. A comprehensive state reform. We also dismantle the complex layers of regional governance. I want the Republicans to be the party of tax reduction. If they are in power, my taxes will decrease, and we are sure of it.\nP2: Aurélien Pradier?\nAP: We want to be a responsible party. We want to tell the truth to the French people. We can't only tell them the truth by penalizing them on pensions. We also need to make the necessary budgetary efforts. Before being the party of tax reduction, which we all obviously wish for, to free this country from all constraints, including unjust fiscal ones, we must be the party of reducing public spending. Yes, it's the most difficult part, but it's the one that will also bring back a bit of flair.\nP1: So this is a disagreement with Eric Ciotti?\nAP: It's not a disagreement, it's a difference in approach, but we will proceed in an organized manner. I will start as the president of the Republicans by proposing a battle plan to reduce expenditures, and Eric will propose a battle plan to lower taxes.\nP2: And how will you do it?\nAP: First, we need a method. Today, we talk about everything and anything. There is a healthy debt that allows us to operate our schools, which will allow us to restore our hospital. I want us to compartmentalize the debts. The healthy debt, which enables investment, from the debt that is not healthy. And I want us to have, every year, after examining the social security budget bill, the national budget bill, a budget and debt management bill. Today, this debt here, it challenges what is most essential, our sovereignty. This sovereignty, we will lose it regarding our social model, but also in relation to all other countries in the world. That's why I want us to be the party of reducing expenditures tomorrow, to be the best party for reducing taxes.\nP1: You're ahead, Aurélien Pradier, we will now turn to Bruno Retailleau. Are you the one synthesizing?\nBR: I could, because taxes need to be lowered. By the way, I think there's a point we haven't discussed about pensions, which is family policy, which was first destroyed by François Hollande and the destruction was accelerated by Emmanuel Macron. I think one of the first points that should be raised is the family quotient to help families. We won't achieve a true pension reform by exempting ourselves from family policy.\nP1: Regarding taxes, what are you reducing?\nBR: We need to be serious. We can't significantly lower taxes without also starting to recover a certain amount of state funds. I think we need to be serious. We will reach the astronomical figure of 3 trillion euros in debt, with negative interest rates that are turning positive, and a huge problem. In France, we are the world champions of public spending, and yet our public services are not functioning well. Hospitals, healthcare, security.\nP2: What are you doing?\nBR: First, I'm tackling public spending, bureaucratization, excessive regulations, the realm of administrative forms (CERFA). We're stepping out and trying to simplify. Not from the top, with high-ranking officials and ministers, but from the bottom, in each department, with a plan for what I call 'weeding out' excessive regulations, like pulling out the weeds. Next, bureaucratization. An example is the hospital. In French hospitals, administrative positions make up 34% of the workforce. In Germany, it's 25%. The difference is 127,000 more administrative positions in French hospitals. This isn't sustainable. I believe we need to rethink the state, not just its administration, but also personnel management. I think the civil service status should be reserved for specific functions, essential roles, but most of the time, we should promote what's known as contracts, because it provides flexibility in human resource management and allows for better pay as well.\nEC: What's not reasonable is that we have, on average, a 5% higher compulsory levy rate than the European average. The right-wing isn't the bogeyman. The right-wing should restore hope. And hope today, for those who work, is to live from the fruits of their labor, to be able to pass it on to their children. When you want to pass on a heritage and the State comes to take up to 45% through inheritance tax, this tax on death is an absolute injustice. And furthermore, it's not just irresponsible. It's virtuous. We've seen it in the United States. An economist, Arthur Laffer, showed that taxes kill taxes. The higher the tax, the lower the growth. So, that means reducing taxes will be a source of growth, a source of job creation. And thus, there will be overall more revenue. This doesn't mean, don't misconstrue my words, that we shouldn't fight against social fraud, reduce our expenses, streamline the State, make CERFA the enemy of any rational policy.\nP1: Administrative forms, that's what you mean.\nEC: It needs to be done, but let's have the courage to show trust in those who work and who are exhausted from sweating day in and day out to cover the bills.",
    "text_fr": "P1 : Vous avez tous les trois évoqué une dimension importante, c'est l'état de nos finances publiques. Le FMI a appelé la France à commencer à assainir ses dépenses à partir de l'année 2023. On va essayer encore une fois d'être très concrets. Tout le monde dit toujours qu'on va réduire les dépenses. Quelles dépenses faut-il réduire Eric Ciotti ?\nEC :  Je vais vous surprendre. Je veux commencer par baisser les impôts. Nous sommes le pays au monde, avec le Danemark, qui paie le plus d'impôts. On va jouer la Coupe du monde dans quelques jours. Chaque année, on gagne la Coupe du monde des impôts. C'est insupportable parce que ça pèse sur ceux qui travaillent ou ont travaillé, les salariés, les retraités. Vous savez que chaque Français paie en moyenne jusqu'au 9 août. Tout ce qu'il gagne, c'est pour l'Etat. C'est le jour de libération fiscale.\nP2 : On a les moyens ?\nEC : On a les moyens, et Il faut commencer par là. Il faut commencer par supprimer l'impôt sur la mort, l'impôt sur les successions, qui est une injustice. Il faut supprimer la taxe sur la taxe, sur les carburants. Il faut arrêter le poids de l'impôt sur le revenu sur quelques dizaines de pourcents de Français. Il faut que l'assommoir fiscal soit relevé, qu'on n'arrive plus aujourd'hui dans cette situation où des Français travaillent uniquement pour l'Etat. On a toujours dit l'inverse, on ne l'a jamais fait. Commençons par baisser les impôts plutôt que de distribuer des chèques sans provision. Ça coûtera moins, quelquefois, peut-être autant, mais ça sera vertueux parce que ça donnera une immense accélération à la création d'emplois, de richesse et de croissance. Et ensuite, ou parallèlement, je ne dis pas en même temps, je l'ai banni de mon vocabulaire. On supprime les 437 agences de l'Etat. On supprime aujourd'hui l'administration qui ne sert à rien. Regardons l'éducation, l'hôpital. En gros, 1,2 million d'agents, à peine 700 000 enseignants, à peine 700 000 soignants. Une vaste réforme de l'Etat. On casse le millefeuille territorial aussi. Je veux que les Républicains soient le parti de la baisse des impôts. Si ce sont eux, mes impôts baisseront et on en est sûrs.\nP2 : Aurélien Pradier?\nAP : Nous voulons être un parti responsable. Nous voulons dire la vérité aux Français. On ne peut pas seulement leur dire la vérité en les punissant sur les retraites. Il faut aussi faire les efforts budgétaires nécessaires. Avant d'être le parti de la baisse des impôts, ce que nous souhaitons évidemment tous, pour libérer ce pays de tous les carcans, y compris fiscaux injustes, nous devons être le parti de la baisse de la dépense publique. Oui, c'est la partie la plus difficile, mais c'est celle qui redonnera aussi un peu de panache.\nP1 : C’est donc un désaccord avec Eric Ciotti ?\nAP : Ce n’est pas un désaccord, c'est un désaccord de méthode, mais on va faire les choses dans l'ordre. Je vais commencer comme président des républicains, à proposer un plan de bataille pour baisser les dépenses, et Eric proposera un plan de bataille pour baisser les impôts.\nP2 : Et comment vous allez le daire ?\nAP : D'abord, il nous faut un peu de méthode. Aujourd'hui, on parle de tout et n'importe quoi. Il y a une dette saine, qui nous permet de faire fonctionner nos écoles, qui nous permettra de redresser notre hôpital. Je veux que nous cloisonnions les dettes. La dette saine, qui permet l'investissement, de la dette qui n'est pas saine. Et je veux que nous ayons, chaque année, après l'examen du projet de loi de finance de la sécurité sociale, du projet de loi de finance de la nation, un projet de loi de finance et de gestion de la dette. Aujourd’hui cette dette là, elle remet en cause ce qu'il y a de plus essentiel, notre souveraineté. Cette souveraineté la, nous allons la perdre sur notre modèle social, mais aussi à l'égard de tous les autres pays du monde. Voilà pourquoi je veux que demain, nous soyons le parti de la baisse de la dépense pour être le meilleur parti de la baisse des impôts.\nP1 : Vous êtes en avance Aurélien Pradier, on va laisser la parole à Bruno Retailleau. Est-ce que c'est vous qui faites la synthèse ?\nBR : Je pourrais, parce qu'il faut baisser des impôts. Au passage, je pense qu'il y a un point dont on n'a pas parlé sur les retraites, c'est la politique familiale, qui a été détruite d'abord par François Hollande et la destruction a été accélérée par Emmanuel Macron. Je pense qu'un des premiers points qu'il faudrait réhausser, c'est le quotient familial pour aider les familles. On ne fera pas une vraie réforme des retraites en s' exonérant d'une politique familiale.\nP1 : Sur la question des impôts, qu'est-ce que vous baissez?\nBR : Il faut être sérieux. On ne peut pas faire une baisse massive des impôts sans commencer aussi par récupérer un certain nombre d'argent de l'Etat. Je pense qu'il faut qu'on soit sérieux. On va atteindre le chiffre astronomique de 3 000 milliards d'euros de dettes, avec des taux d'intérêt négatifs, mais qui deviennent positifs, et avec un énorme problème. En France, on est champion du monde de la dépense publique, et pour autant, nos services publics fonctionnent mal. L'hôpital, la santé, la sécurité.\nP2 : Qu'est-ce que vous faites?\nBR : D'abord, je m'attaque à la dépense publique, la débureaucratisation, l'enfer normatif, le royaume du CERFA. On sort, on essaie de simplifier. Pas par le haut, avec des hauts fonctionnaires des ministres, par le bas, dans chaque département, avec un plan de ce que j’appelle le désherbage, d'une mauvaise herbe normative. Ensuite, la débureaucratisation. Un exemple, l'hôpital. L'hôpital français, vous avez 34 % de postes administratifs. En Allemagne, 25 %. La différence, c'est 127 000 postes administratifs de plus dans l'hôpital français. Ca n'est pas possible. Je pense qu'il faut revoir l'Etat, il faut revoir la gestion aussi, non seulement de l'Etat, mais du personnel de l'Etat. Je pense que le statut devrait être réservé à quelques fonctions, emplois régaliens, mais que, la plupart du temps, on devrait généraliser ce qu'on appelle le contrat, parce que ça organise une souplesse dans la gestion humaine et ça permet d'avoir aussi des gens mieux payés.\nEC : Ce qui n'est pas sérieux, c'est que nous ayons, en moyenne, 5 % de taux de prélèvement obligatoire de plus que la moyenne européenne. La droite, c'est pas le père fouettard. La droite, elle doit redonner de l'espérance. Et l'espérance, aujourd'hui, pour ceux qui travaillent, c'est de vivre du fruit de leur travail, de pouvoir le transmettre à leurs enfants. Quand vous voulez transmettre un patrimoine et que l'Etat vient vous en prélever jusqu'à 45 %, cet impôt sur la mort, c'est d'une injustice absolue. Et puis, en plus, c'est pas simplement irresponsable. C'est vertueux. On l'a vu aux Etats-Unis. C'est un économiste, Arthur Laffer, qui avait montré que l'impôt tue l'impôt. Plus l'impôt est élevé, moins la croissance est élevée. Donc, ça veut dire que baisser les impôts sera source de croissance, source de création d'emplois. Et donc, il y aura globalement plus de recettes. Ça ne veut pas dire, ne me faites pas dire ce que j'ai pas dit, qu'il ne faut pas lutter contre la fraude sociale, faire diminuer nos dépenses, rationaliser l'État, faire du CERFA l'ennemi de toute politique rationnelle.\nP1 : Les formulaires administratifs, c’est ce que vous voulez dire.\nEC : Il faut le faire, mais ayons le courage de donner un signe de confiance à ceux qui travaillent et qui en peuvent plus, de suer le burnous tous les jours pour payer la gamme.",
    "summaries": [
        {
            "number": "1",
            "text_en": "In this debate, Eric Ciotti, Bruno Retailleau, and Aurélien Pradié discuss expense reductions. Eric Ciotti explains that taxes should be lowered, especially inheritance tax and surtaxes on fuels. Eric Ciotti also wishes to decrease income tax. He explains that reducing taxes instead of distributing checks will create a virtuous circle. To reduce expenses, Eric Ciotti wants to eliminate unnecessary administrative positions. Aurélien Pradié explains that an annual review of social security, national finance, and debt management projects should be implemented to identify potential cost savings. Bruno Retailleau aims to streamline and simplify the CERFA systems.",
            "text_fr": "Dans ce débat, Eric Ciotti, Bruno Retailleau et Aurélien Pradié discutent des réductions des dépenses. Eric Ciotti explique qu'il faut baisser les impôts, notamment l'impôt sur la succession et les surtaxes sur les carburants. Eric Ciotti souhaite aussi baisser l'impôt sur le revenu. Eric Ciotti explique que baisser les impôts plutôt que distribuer des chèques créera un cercle vertueux. Pour réduire les dépenses, Eric Ciotti souhaite supprimer des postes de l'administration superflus. Aurélien Pradié explique qu'il faut mettre en place un examen annuel des projets de finance de la sécurité sociale, de la nation et de la gestion de la dette afin de savoir quelles dépenses peuvent être économisées. Bruno Retailleau souhaite débureaucratiser et simplifier les systèmes CERFA.",
            "nb_words_en": "95",
            "nb_words_fr": "123",
            "nb_characters_en": "666",
            "nb_characters_fr": "782"
        },
        {
            "number": "2",
            "text_en": "Eric Ciotti, Bruno Retailleau, and Aurélien Pradié are debating the issue of expenditure reductions. Eric Ciotti suggests starting by lowering taxes, particularly by eliminating the inheritance tax, estate tax, fuel tax, and reducing income tax. He has also proposed eliminating state agencies that serve no purpose and streamlining the administrative layers of local government. Aurélien Pradié, on the other hand, emphasizes the importance of responsibility and transparency. He points out that before taxes can be lowered, public spending must first be reduced. He argues that by being responsible with expenditures, it will be possible to be truthful with the French people, rather than only penalizing them on retirements. Bruno Retailleau suggests beginning by increasing the family quotient to assist families. He also highlights the need to be serious about tax reduction and the necessity of reclaiming funds from the state for this purpose. He also mentions the need to reduce public expenditure, eliminate regulatory complexity, and simplify matters by addressing administrative positions, particularly within hospitals. He proposes revising state management and standardizing contracts for government employees, rather than maintaining the current status quo which limits flexibility in human resource management and the potential for higher remuneration.",
            "text_fr": "Eric Ciotti, Bruno Retailleau et Aurélien Pradié débattent de la question des baisses des dépenses. Eric Ciotti propose de commencer par baisser les impôts, notamment en supprimant l'impôt sur la mort, l'impôt sur les successions, la taxe sur la taxe du carburant et en réduisant l'impôt sur le revenu. Il a également proposé de supprimer les agences de l'Etat qui ne servent à rien, et de réduire le millefeuille territorial. Aurélien Pradier, quant à lui, a insisté sur l'importance de la responsabilité et de la transparence, et a souligné qu'avant de pouvoir baisser les impôts, il faut d'abord réduire les dépenses publiques. Il a argumenté que c'est en étant responsable sur les dépenses, qu'il sera possible de dire la vérité aux français, et non pas seulement en les pénalisant sur les retraites. Bruno Retailleau propose de commencer par augmenter le quotient familial pour aider les familles. Il a également souligné qu'il faut être sérieux dans la réduction des impôts et qu'il est nécessaire de récupérer de l'argent de l'Etat pour cela. Il a également fait état de la nécessité de réduire la dépense publique, de se débarrasser de l'enfer normatif et de simplifier les choses en s'attaquant aux postes administratifs notamment dans l'hôpital. Il a également proposé de réviser la gestion de l'Etat et de généraliser les contrats pour les employés de l'Etat, plutôt que de maintenir le statut actuel qui limite la souplesse de gestion humaine et la possibilité de rémunération plus élevée.",
            "nb_words_en": "196",
            "nb_words_fr": "262",
            "nb_characters_en": "1367",
            "nb_characters_fr": "1501"
        },
        {
            "number": "3",
            "text_en": "In this debate, Aurélien Pradié, Eric Ciotti, and Bruno Retailleau discuss the topics of spending reductions and tax cuts. Eric Ciotti proposes reducing taxes by eliminating some, such as the inheritance tax, fuel taxes, and by reducing income tax. He believes this would have a beneficial impact on employment, wealth, and growth. He also aims to eliminate unnecessary administrative positions to reduce expenses. Aurélien Pradié, on his part, advocates for responsibility and transparency by implementing an annual examination of finance projects to identify potential savings in expenses. Bruno Retailleau also aims to reduce expenses by getting rid of heavy administrative procedures and simplifying the CERFA systems.",
            "text_fr": "Dans ce débat, Aurélien Pradié, Eric Ciotti et Bruno Retailleau abordent les sujets de réductions des dépenses et de baisses d'impôts. Eric Ciotti propose de réduire les impôts en supprimant certains comme l'impôt sur la succession, les taxes sur les carburants et en réduisant l'impôt sur le revenu. Il considère que cela aurait un impact bénéfique sur l'emploi, la richesse et la croissance. Il souhaite également supprimer des postes administratifs inutiles pour réduire les dépenses. Aurélien Pradié, pour sa part, prône la responsabilité et la transparence en mettant en place un examen annuel des projets de finances pour identifier les dépenses qui peuvent être économisées. Bruno Retailleau souhaite lui aussi réduire les dépenses en se débarrassant des procédures administratives lourdes et en simplifiant les systèmes CERFA.",
            "nb_words_en": "106",
            "nb_words_fr": "130",
            "nb_characters_en": "722",
            "nb_characters_fr": "834"
        },
        {
            "number": "4",
            "text_en": "In this debate, Pradié, Ciotti, and Retailleau discuss the reduction of public expenditures. Paradoxically, Ciotti begins by emphasizing the necessity of reducing taxes. He particularly wishes to eliminate the inheritance tax, a portion of fuel taxes, decrease income tax, and abolish several government agencies. However, Pradié explains that it is necessary to first address the reduction of public spending, which is why he proposes implementing a debt management bill each year. On the other hand, Retailleau suggests starting by increasing the family quotient (a tax reduction mechanism). Like Pradié, Retailleau believes that the first step should be to decrease government expenses. He intends to eliminate government agencies, fight against bureaucratization, administrative tasks without added value, and unnecessary forms and procedures; this would result in a significant amount of saved working time. Ciotti concludes the discussion by mentioning the weight of mandatory levies in France, which are 5% higher than the European average; reducing them will lead to growth and employment. Thus, his approach is opposite to that of his adversaries.",
            "text_fr": "Dans ce débat, Pradié, Ciotti et Retailleau débattent de la baisse des dépenses publics. Ciotti commence paradoxalement par souligner la nécessité de diminuer les impôts. Il souhaite notamment supprimer l’impôt sur l’héritage, une partie des taxes sur les carburants, diminuer l’impôt sur le revenu et supprimer plusieurs agences de l’État. Cependant, Pradié explique qu’il faut d’abord s’attaquer à la baisse des dépenses publiques, c’est pourquoi il propose de mettre en place chaque année un projet de loi de gestion de la dette. Retailleau souhaite de son côté commencer par rehausser le quotient familial. Comme Pradié, Retailleau pense qu’il faut en premier lieu diminuer les dépenses de l’État. Il entend donc supprimer des agences de l’État, lutter contre la bureaucratisation, les tâches administratives sans valeur ajoutées et les formulaires et procédure inutiles ; beaucoup de temps de travail sera ainsi gagné. Ciotti termine la discutions en mentionnant le poids des prélèvements obligataires en France, supérieurs à la moyenne européenne de 5 % ; les diminuer permettra d’avoir de la croissance et de l’emploi. Sa démarche est donc inverse à celle de ses adversaires.",
            "nb_words_en": "170",
            "nb_words_fr": "192",
            "nb_characters_en": "1156",
            "nb_characters_fr": "1182"
        }
    ],
    "nb_words_en": "1233",
    "nb_words_fr": "1378",
    "nb_characters_en": "6855",
    "nb_characters_fr": "7528"
}