{
    "file_name":"30095443",
    "source_dataset":"2",
    "language":"0",
    "text_en":"The archive of travel writer, war hero and adventurer Sir Patrick Leigh Fermor has been catalogued by the National Library of Scotland. The collection includes letters from Prince Charles and Truman Capote. Sir Patrick, who was known as Paddy, died in 2011 at the age of 96. He published several books on his travels around the world and one of the most prized items in the archive is the only surviving notebook from his 1933 trek across Europe. The trek provided the material for his most famous books, 'A Time of Gifts', 'Between the Woods and the Water' and 'The Broken Road'. Thousands of items which occupy 16 metres of shelving took a year to be catalogued by library staff. Along with letters from notable 20th century figures they also uncovered literary manuscripts, sketches and what appears to be an unpublished John Betjeman poem on the back of an envelope. Sir Patrick spent much of World War Two on Nazi-occupied Crete. During his time there he disguised himself as a shepherd to organise guerrilla operations against the Nazis. He led one of the most daring feats of the war in 1944, capturing the commander of the German garrison on Crete. The 1957 film starring Dirk Bogarde 'Ill Met by Moonlight' was based on the operation. Graham Stewart, the library curator who worked on the archive project, said: 'It is a history of the colourful life of a celebrated writer. He was undoubtedly a superstar of his day and his books have, if anything, grown in popularity over the years. There has already been a lot of interest in the archive and we expect this to increase now among Leigh Fermor fans and people interested in the 20th century more generally. The library is working on digitising some of the archive so it can be viewed on its website'. They are also considering holding exhibitions and displays of the collection so more people will be able to see it. The archive was given to the library by the John R Murray Charitable Trust. John Murray was Sir Patrick's publisher and the trust also supported the cataloguing of the collection.",
    "text_fr": "Les archives de l'écrivain voyageur, héros de guerre et aventurier Sir Patrick Leigh Fermor ont été cataloguées par la Bibliothèque nationale d'Écosse. La collection comprend des lettres du Prince Charles et de Truman Capote. Sir Patrick, qui était connu sous le nom de Paddy, est décédé en 2011 à l'âge de 96 ans. Il a publié plusieurs livres sur ses voyages autour du monde et l'une des pièces les plus précieuses des archives est le seul carnet de notes qui subsiste de son périple de 1933 à travers l'Europe. Ce voyage a fourni la matière de ses livres les plus célèbres, 'A Time of Gifts', 'Between the Woods and the Water' et 'The Broken Road'. Il a fallu un an au personnel de la bibliothèque pour cataloguer des milliers d'articles occupant 16 mètres de rayonnages. Outre des lettres de personnalités du XXe siècle, ils ont également découvert des manuscrits littéraires, des esquisses et ce qui semble être un poème inédit de John Betjeman au dos d'une enveloppe. Sir Patrick a passé une grande partie de la Seconde Guerre mondiale dans la Crète occupée par les nazis. Pendant cette période, il s'est déguisé en berger pour organiser des opérations de guérilla contre les nazis. En 1944, il a réalisé l'un des exploits les plus audacieux de la guerre en capturant le commandant de la garnison allemande en Crète. Le film de 1957 avec Dirk Bogarde 'Ill Met by Moonlight' est basé sur cette opération. Graham Stewart, conservateur de la bibliothèque qui a travaillé sur le projet d'archives, a déclaré : 'Il s'agit de l'histoire de la vie colorée d'un écrivain célèbre. Il était sans aucun doute une superstar à son époque et ses livres ont gagné en popularité au fil des ans. Les archives ont déjà suscité beaucoup d'intérêt et nous nous attendons à ce que cet intérêt s'accroisse parmi les fans de Leigh Fermor et les personnes intéressées par le XXe siècle en général'. La bibliothèque travaille à la numérisation d'une partie des archives afin qu'elles puissent être consultées sur son site web. Elle envisage également d'organiser des expositions et des présentations de la collection afin qu'un plus grand nombre de personnes puissent la voir. Les archives ont été données à la bibliothèque par le John R Murray Charitable Trust. John Murray était l'éditeur de Sir Patrick et le trust a également soutenu le catalogage de la collection.",
    "nb_characters":"",
    "nb_words":"",
    "summaries":[
        {
            "number":"1",
            "text_en":"A lifetime of diaries, letters and photographs of a man described as a cross between Indiana Jones, James Bond and Graham Greene has opened to the public.",
            "text_fr":"Les journaux intimes, les lettres et les photographies de la vie d'un homme décrit comme un croisement entre Indiana Jones, James Bond et Graham Greene ont été rendus publics.",
            "nb_characters":"",
            "nb_words":""
        }
    ]
}