{
    "file_name": "Mélenchon_Guaino_Alignmeet_Partie 3 - Islamisme",
    "source_dataset": "0",
    "language": "1",
    "text_en": "P1: We heard Bernard Cazeneuve on another subject this morning. A French person named Maxime has been identified in the video of the ISIS executioners. He is from Normandy and comes from a Catholic family. He wasn't a delinquent, he didn't live in a difficult neighborhood. What does this inspire in you?\nHG: I believe it's a sign of our Republic's failure. I think if it were an isolated case, but it's not an isolated case. How did we get to this point in the country of human rights, in the country of the Republic? It's the Republic that didn't fulfill its promises for us to reach this point, and I believe it should make all of us reflect, especially on the relationship the Republic maintains through education, particularly concerning religions, beliefs, and secularism.\nP1: 80% of these young jihadists come from secular families.\nHG: What's surprising is the vulnerability of this youth, which seems extremely susceptible to all extremists and fundamentalists. How did we get here? How can we, through education, through culture, create a resistant youth against the assaults and propaganda of these people? It's quite terrifying. What strikes me is the fragility of a part of the youth towards this propaganda.\nP1: So what do we do to combat Islamic proselytism?\nJLM: Let's start with the foundation, with anthropology, which holds more than the current circumstances. Throughout history, young people have been eager for ideals, always. What does this society offer? Every person for themselves, the strongest crushes the weakest. Well, you have thousands of young people aspiring to something else, fine. So, they find it in political action, sometimes in religion, sometimes in a variety of philosophical practices, and some are drawn in by propaganda that shows them a better world and reasons to fight. So what does this show? That politics is central, that ideological struggle is central, that cultural battle is central, and it's residual in a society. Secondly, why does this happen in relation to Islam? If Muslims in France weren't continually singled out, if they weren't constantly denounced and put on the spot to distance themselves from any brute, like the ones we see assassinating and beheading. Did we ask a single Catholic to distance themselves from the killer who lived in Norway? No, but we did that for all Muslims. If Muslims weren't treated like this, then maybe a lot of Muslims, especially young ones, wouldn't feel somewhat pushed to say, I'm going to show, in an absurd and crazy way, and in my opinion contrary to religious law, how I believe in God.\nP1: But anyway, these young people were not born into Muslim families. They were born into atheist and Catholic families, and they converted to Islam.\nJLM: Well, it depends. For weeks, we hear about the young people from the suburbs who are all jihadists. Now, here we are with young people who were not Muslims initially, I agree. I just gave you my response. It speaks to the nature of human beings and the need they have for the absolute. I propose to them the absolute of humanist struggle, the struggle for eco-socialism, for a humanity, a universal Republic. Another person comes and offers them the struggle for a madness called holy war, which has nothing to do with the content of their own religion if they would bother to inquire. And well, I will tell you, especially regarding Islam. Those who believe should help explain to those who believe wrongly why they are mistaken.\nHG: Your reasoning would be valid if the young people engaging in this kind of fight were all born into religious families, had always practiced, and were driven by deep and intimate beliefs. That's not the case. Most of them are either converted young people or individuals who have never been religious, who have never practiced, and suddenly start following extremists and fanatics. So, this poses a problem for society as a whole. It poses a problem for the Republic, it poses a problem for the school system, even before considering the message.\nJLM: Oh, but I agree with all of that.\nHG: Eco-socialism is good, but it's not the only answer to this question. The response to this problem, the solution, is education, training, culture, the emancipatory process of the Republic. And for that, it's important to be capable of giving our children moral tools.\nJLM: The tools in question, let me tell you what they are. Teachers in every class, a sufficient number of professors to educate, and a political will marked by leaders to say that the Republic is not a neutral regime. It's a regime with substance, with a direction and a purpose. It's not a neutral regime, and secularism is not anti-religion; it's the separation of Churches and the State. This separation is strict for all religions, not just Islam.\nP1: You agree on that.\nHG: The separation of Church and State is not just one religion among others; it's secularism.\nJLM: We are not Belgians.",
    "text_fr": "P1 : On a entendu Bernard Cazeuneuve sur un autre sujet ce matin. Un français, maxime a été identifié sur la vidéo des bourreaux de l’état islamiques. Il est normand issu d'une famille catholique, ce n'était pas un délinquant, il ne vivait pas dans un quartier difficile, qu'est-ce que cela vous inspire ?\nHG : Je crois que c'est un signe de faillite de notre République. Je pense que s'il y a un cas isolé, mais ce n'est pas un cas isolé. Comment dans le pays des droits de l'homme, dans le pays de la République, comment en sommes-nous arrivés là ? C'est la République qui n'a pas tenu ses promesses pour que nous en arrivions là, et je crois que ça devrait tous nous faire réfléchir et notre notamment sur le rapport que la République entretien à travers l'école notamment avec les religions, avec les croyances des uns et des autres, avec la laïcité.\nP1 : 80% de ces jeunes jihadistes ont une famille laïque.\nHG : Ce qui est étonnant, c’est la fragilité de cette jeunesse qui semble extrêmement vulnérables à tous les extrémistes et à tous les intégristes. Comment, comment en sommes-nous arrivés là, comment pouvons-nous par l'éducation, par la culture, arriver à former une jeunesse soit résistante aux assauts à la propagande de ces ces gens-là, c'est quand même terrifiant. Ce qui me frappe c’est cette fragilité d'une partie de la jeunesse à cette à cette propagande.\nP1 : Alors qu'est-ce qu'on fait pour lutter contre le prosélytisme islamique ?\nJLM : Commençons d’abord par le fond, par l'anthropologie, ce qui tient davantage qu'à la circonstance du moment. De tout le temps, les jeunes gens ont été avide d’idéal, de tout le temps. Cette société qu'est-ce qu'elle propose, chacun pour soi, le plus fort écrase le plus faible. Et bien vous avez des milliers de jeunes qui aspirent à autre chose, bien. Alors, ils le trouvent dans l'action politique, des fois dans la religion d'autrefois dans des pratiques philosophique les plus diverses, et puis certains sont aspirés par une propagande qui leur montre un monde meilleur et des raisons de se battre. Donc qu'est-ce que ça montre ça ? Que la politique et centrale, que la lutte idéologique est centrale, que la bataille culturelle est centrale, et par résiduelle dans une société. Deuxièmement, pourquoi est-ce que les choses se passent de cette façon à propos de l'islam. Si les musulmans de France n'étaient pas continuellement montrés du doigt, si il n'était pas sans cesse dénoncés et mis au pied du mur d'avoir à se désolidariser de n'importe quelle brute comme celle que nous voyons qui assassine en décapitant. Est-ce qu'on a demandé à un seul catholique de se démarquer du tueur qui a vécu en Norvège. Non, mais on a fait pour tous les musulmans. Si on ne traitait pas les musulmans comme ça, alors peut-être que beaucoup de musulmans, notamment des jeunes, ne se sentirait pas en quelques sortes poussé à dire, je vais montrer d'une manière absurde, folle et à mon avis contraire à la loi religieuse de quelle manière il croit en Dieu.\nP1 : Mais enfin ces jeunes la ne sont pas nés dans des familles musulmanes, ils sont nés dans des familles athée et catholique, et il se sont convertis à l’islam.\nJLM : Mais ça dépend. Des semaines, on nous parle des jeunes des banlieues qui sont tous des djihadistes, maintenant nous voici rendu avec des jeunes gens qui n'étaient pas musulman au départ, j’en conviens. Je viens je viens de vous donner ma réponse. Elle porte à la nature des êtres humains et aux besoins qu’ils ont d’absolu. Je leur propose l'absolu de la lutte humaniste, de la lutte pour l’éco socialisme, d'une humanité, une République universelle. Un autre vient et lui propose la lutte pour une folie qui s'appelle la guerre sainte, qui n'a rien à voir avec le contenu de sa propre religion s'il voulait bien se renseigner. Et bien, je vais vous dire notamment pour l'islam. Il faudrait aider ceux qui croient à expliquer à ceux qui croient mal pourquoi ils se trompent.\nHG : Votre raisonnement serait recevable si les jeunes qui s'engagent dans ce genre de combat étaient tous nés dans une famille religieuse, avaient toujours pratiqué, et y aller par par par croyances profondes et intimes. Ce n'est pas le cas. La plupart sont soit des jeunes convertis sont soit des gens qui n'ont jamais été religieux, qui n’ont jamais pratiqué qui donne du jour au lendemain se met à suivre à suivre des intégristes et des fanatiques. Donc ça pose un problème à la société tout entière. Ça pose un problème à la République ça pose un problème à l'école, avant même de savoir si le message.\nJLM : Ah mais moi je suis d’accord avec tout ça.\nHG : L’éco socialisme c’est très bien, c’est pas la seule réponse à cette question, la réponse à ce problème la réponse c'est, c'est l'école, c'est la formation, c'est la culture, c'est le processus émancipateur de la République. Et pour ça encore faut-il être capable de donner des armes à nos enfants, des armes morales.\nJLM : Les armes en questions je vais vous dire lesquelles elles sont. Des instituteurs dans toutes les classes, des professeurs en nombre suffisant pour éduquer, et une volonté politique que marque les dirigeants, de dire que la République n'est pas un régime neutre. C'est un régime qui a un contenu qui a une ligne et une vocation. Ce n'est pas un régime neutre, et que la laïcité ce n'est pas l’anti religion, c'est la séparation des Églises et de l'État. Que cette séparation est stricte pour toute religions et pas seulement pour l’islam.\nP1 : Vous êtes d’accord la dessus.\nHG : La séparation de l'Église et de l'État mais c'est pas une religion parmis d’autres la laïcité.\nJLM : Nous ne sommes pas des belges.",
    "summaries": [
        {
            "number": "1",
            "text_en": "In this debate, Jean luc mélenchon and Henri Guaino discuss islam in france. The presenter talks about the radicalisation of the French. Henri Guaino explains that the radicalisation of the French population represents a failure of the republic, and explains that this should not happen in the land of human rights. Henri Guaino explains that this calls into question the relationship between the republic and schools and religion, to find out the causes of this movement. Jean Luc Mélenchon explained that young people have always been eager for ideals, which they find through political action, religion and philosophical practices. Jean Luc Mélenchon explained that politics is central, and that if Muslims were not continually singled out, they would be less likely to be pushed towards radicalism. Jean Luc Mélenchon explained that whether Muslims or not, they should fight for humanity. Henri Guaino explains that this reasoning does not work because not all radicalised young people come from religious families. Henri Guaino explained that this failure points to a problem at school, which is the emancipatory process of the republic. Jean Luc Mélenchon explained that more teachers were needed, but that the separation of church and state had to be maintained.",
            "text_fr": "Dans ce débat, Jean luc mélenchon et Henri Guaino discutent de l'islam en france. Le présentateur parle de la radicalisation des français. Henri Guaino explique que la radicalisation des français représente une faillite de la république, et explique que cela ne devrait pas arriver dans le pays des droits de l'homme. Henri Guaino explique que cela remet en cause le rapport de la république avec l'école et la religion, pour connaître les causes de ce mouvement. Jean luc mélenchon explique que la jeunesse a toujours été avide d'idéal, qu'ils trouvent à travers les actions politiques, la religion, et les pratiques philosophique. Jean Luc Mélenchon explique que la politique est centrale et que si les musulmans n'étaient pas continuellement montrés du doigt, moins seraient poussés à la radicalité. Jean luc mélenchon explique que, qu'il soit musulmans ou non, ils devraient se battre pour l'humanité. Henri Guaino explique que ce raisonnement ne marche pas car tous les jeunes radicalisés ne viennent pas de famille religieuse. Henri Guaino explique que cet échec pointe un problème à l'école, qui est le processus émancipateur de la république. Jean Luc Mélenchon explique qu'il faut plus de professeurs, mais qu'il faut garder la séparation des églises et de l'état.",
            "nb_words_en": "200",
            "nb_words_fr": "214",
            "nb_characters_en": "1269",
            "nb_characters_fr": "1273"
        },
        {
            "number": "2",
            "text_en": "In this debate, Jean luc mélenchon and Henri Guaino discuss islam in france. Guaino blames the failure of the Republic to keep its promises, particularly in education and religion, for the radicalisation of young people. He expresses concern about the vulnerability of young people to extremist propaganda. On the other hand, Mélenchon argues that the root of the problem lies in society's failure to offer young people a convincing ideal. He argues that the fight against radicalisation should begin with an ideological and cultural battle, rather than simply the fight against terrorism. Mélenchon also highlights the role of the French government and the media in continually denouncing Muslims, thereby pushing them towards extremism.",
            "text_fr": "Dans ce débat, Jean luc mélenchon et Henri Guaino discutent de l'islam en france. Guaino blâme l'échec de la République à tenir ses promesses, en particulier en matière d'éducation et de religion, pour la radicalisation des jeunes. Il exprime sa préoccupation quant à la fragilité des jeunes face à la propagande extrémiste. En revanche, Mélenchon affirme que la racine du problème réside dans l'échec de la société à offrir un idéal convaincant aux jeunes. Il soutient que la lutte contre la radicalisation devrait commencer par une bataille idéologique et culturelle, plutôt que simplement par la lutte antiterroriste. Mélenchon souligne également le rôle du gouvernement français et des médias dans la dénonciation continue des musulmans, les poussant ainsi vers l'extrémisme.",
            "nb_words_en": "114",
            "nb_words_fr": "124",
            "nb_characters_en": "738",
            "nb_characters_fr": "779"
        },
        {
            "number": "3",
            "text_en": "In this debate, Jean-Luc Mélenchon and Henri Guaino discuss Islam in France. On France's responsibility for the radicalisation of young people, Henri Guaino explains that the republic of human rights has failed. In his view, the relationship between the republic, schools and religion needs to be questioned, and he explained that there is a problem with education. Jean-Luc Mélenchon explained that young people are looking for ideals, whether political, religious or philosophical. For him, politics and the ideological struggle are central, and Muslims, who are constantly denounced by France, have no choice but to turn to religion. Jean-Luc Mélenchon explains that he is proposing that young people become politically and ecologically involved. For Henri Guaino, this reasoning is flawed, because not all radicalised people come from religious families. He explained that we need to work on culture and emancipation. Jean Luc Mélenchon agreed, saying that more teachers were needed, but that church and state should remain separate.",
            "text_fr": "Dans ce débat, Jean luc mélenchon et Henri Guaino discutent de l'islam en france. Sur la résponsabilité de la France dans la radicalisation des jeunes, Henri Guaino explique qu'il y a une faillite de la république des droits de l'hommes. Selon lui, le rapport de la république à l'école et la religion doit être questionné, il explique qu'il y a un problème d'éducation. Jean luc mélenchon explique que les jeunes sont en recherche d'idéal, qu'ils soient politiques, religieux ou philosophique. Pour lui, la politique et la lutte idéologique est centrale, et les musulmans, sans cesse dénoncés par la france, n'ont pas d'autre choix que de se tourner vers la religion. Jean luc mélenchon explique qu'il propose aux jeunes de s'engager politiquement et écologiquement. Pour Henri Guaino, ce raisonnement est bancal, car tous les radicalisés ne viennent pas de familles religieuses. Il explique qu'il faut travailler sur la culture et l'émancipation. Jean Luc Mélenchon est d'accord, pour lui, il faut plus de professeurs, mais l'église et l'état doivent resté séparés.",
            "nb_words_en": "161",
            "nb_words_fr": "186",
            "nb_characters_en": "1037",
            "nb_characters_fr": "1067"
        },
        {
            "number": "4",
            "text_en": "In this debate, Mélenchon and Guaino discuss the issue of Islam. A French convert having been identified among the executioners of the Islamic State, Guaino believes that the Republic has failed. In his view, it has not kept its promises. Guaino also expressed surprise at the weakness of young people in the face of Islamist propaganda. For Mélenchon, young people are always looking for an ideal. Religion is one of them. He also believes that if Islam were not constantly singled out by society, young Muslims would not feel driven to commit horrific acts. Mélenchon therefore proposes to offer them a republican and humanist ideal. Guaino agreed; this would involve culture, schools and training. Mélenchon went on to say that above all, the principles of secularism had to be affirmed.",
            "text_fr": "Dans ce débat, Mélenchon et Guaino discutent de la question de l’Islam. Un Français converti ayant été identifié parmi les bourreaux de l’État Islamique, Guaino estime qu’il y a une faillite de la République. Selon lui, elle n’a pas tenu ses promesses. Guaino s’étonne également de la faiblesse de la jeunesse face à la propagande islamiste. Pour Mélenchon, la jeunesse recherche toujours un idéal. La religion en fait partie. Il pense par ailleurs que si l’Islam n’était pas montré du doigt en permanence par la société, les jeunes musulmans ne se sentiraient pas poussés à commettre des actes horribles. Mélenchon propose alors de leur offrir un idéal républicain et humaniste. Guaino est d’accord ; cela passe par la culture, l’école et la formation. Mélenchon précise enfin qu’il faut surtout affirmer les principes de la laïcité.",
            "nb_words_en": "130",
            "nb_words_fr": "144",
            "nb_characters_en": "790",
            "nb_characters_fr": "834"
        }
    ],
    "nb_words_en": "865",
    "nb_words_fr": "1055",
    "nb_characters_en": "4938",
    "nb_characters_fr": "5647"
}