{
    "file_name": "Mitterand Chirac_Partie 9 - La Russie",
    "source_dataset": "0",
    "language": "1",
    "text_en": "P1: If you're willing, let's move on to the final aspect. Regarding speaking time, at the end of each segment, we have 53 minutes and 40 seconds for François Mitterrand, and 52 minutes and 17 seconds for Jacques Chirac. In a month's time, gentlemen, Mr. Reagan and Mr. Gorbachev will meet in Moscow. Do you believe that the Europeans, who are directly concerned, have been adequately consulted on disarmament issues? And, another question related to this, do you believe or not believe in Mr. Gorbachev's sincerity?\nJC: I don't make presumptions, and I believe that it is also in Mr. Gorbachev's interest to reduce the burdens that the considerable production and maintenance of excessive armaments place on the lives of Soviets. Therefore, I imagine he is sincere. However, I remain extremely vigilant because I am convinced that a Soviet leader will never abandon the objective of neutralizing Western Europe. Never. Consequently, I believe that, in the current state of affairs, we must not let our guard down. We should retain all means to be sufficiently deterrent to prevent any temptation of adventure from the Russians or anyone else.\nFM: The issue, Madame Cotta, is not whether Mr. Gorbachev is sincere. The issue is that everything should unfold on the world stage as if he were sincere. I mean, he should be held accountable for being sincere. That's why we need to both support his efforts towards disarmament and, at the same time, take precautions to ensure the security of Europe and our own security. From this perspective, I completely approve of the Washington Accord, which saw the world's two largest countries agreeing to reduce their nuclear arsenals. I demand more, and I believe that today's priority is the disarmament of conventional forces between East and West, which means at the border between the two Germanys and Czechoslovakia, where the Soviets possess vastly superior power compared to ours. Then we'll know if Mr. Gorbachev is truly sincere.\nP1: Disarmament, Mr. Chirac?\nJC: Regarding disarmament, I believe that Europe should not exceed the agreements reached today in terms of nuclear matters. Otherwise, it would be dangerous. Our country has been assured by nuclear deterrence. Nuclear deterrence to which you, Mr. Mitterrand, are very attached today, and I'm pleased about that. However, I would like to remind you that it was inspired and implemented by General de Gaulle. We owe our status as a major power to him in this regard. It was contested by you, and I wonder if, in 1965, had you been President of the Republic, we wouldn't have nuclear capability. You see how things can change a country's fate in an election. As for the rest, I believe that the priority today is the reduction of central arsenals, Russian and American, which are naturally the most dangerous and would hold us hostage if we didn't have the necessary deterrent means. Additionally, there's a need to reduce the imbalance in terms of conventional and chemical weapons between Eastern countries and the countries of the Atlantic Alliance.\nFM: I will simply say a word, which is that the Prime Minister asked me an important question regarding the concept of nuclear strike capability, I mean the strategy of nuclear deterrence. You see, Mr. Prime Minister, I am very sensitive, very committed to the continuity of France's foreign policy, and I embrace this continuity; it was named de Gaulle, Pompidou, Giscard d'Estaing, and now it bears my name. And do you truly believe that, 30 years later, I would disrupt the dynamics of international balance and the conditions of French security, meaning the foundation of our national defense upon which our military is organized, just to be proven right 30 years later?\nJC: And indeed, you would be wrong.\nFM: Yes, you see, I would probably be wrong! I would most likely be wrong! The continuity of France must be upheld by all those tasked with it. A lot happens in 30 years, and I take that into account. I do not wish for the government to undo what has been done every time there's a change in administration.\nP2: Gentlemen, I would like to ask a question about the hostage issue. Three French citizens are still being held captive.\nJC: If you'll allow me, before discussing hostages. Naturally, I am very much in favor of this continuity, especially when it aligns with the core conviction of my political family. However, it does prompt a thought. If, Mr. Mitterrand, you had been elected much earlier – and it could have happened – we wouldn't have the institutions we have today. You vehemently opposed them in both word and action, and we wouldn't have a nuclear strike capability; you fought against it with great force. You now embrace it, and I am glad for that, you even embrace it with enthusiasm, and I appreciate that, but you fought against it with great intensity. If I link this with the fact that back then, the majority of French people were in favor of our institutions and our defense, you attempted to divide them with the policies of 1981 in favor of the left-wing populace and the education debate we mentioned earlier. And then, you asked me, 'Do you want to reignite that?' God knows I don't. But you did. All of this makes me concerned because your past actions were marked either by a misjudgment or by actions of division. And now, you say to me, 'I am the unifier.' It's curious. And I wonder if, by any chance, you are right this time, after such a long career – it's certainly possible, but if once again, you have a flawed judgment, it's dangerous!\nFM: Mr. Prime Minister, I spent 24 years in opposition. Exercising one's democratic right to be for or against something is not dividing France. And during those 24 years, history was shaped by others, not me. Then, in 1981, I became the primary decision-maker. At that moment, I had to choose between the personal satisfaction of undoing what had been done and the grave mistake, in the eyes of my country, of wanting to start everything from scratch 25 or 30 years later. I chose to serve France as I envisioned it. Let me turn this reasoning back to you: if you had been – well, there would be no Europe today because you were against it. You see, people can change.",
    "text_fr": "Mme. COTTA : Nous passons, si vous voulez bien, au dernier volet. Vous en êtes, je dis les temps de parole, comme à la fin de chacune des parties, 53 minutes 40 secondes pour François Mitterrand, 52 minutes 17 secondes pour Jacques Chirac. La politique étrangère, dans un mois, messieurs, M. Reagan et M. Gorbatchev se retrouvent à Moscou. Alors jugez-vous que les Européens, pourtant concernés au premier chef, ont été assez consultés sur les problèmes du désarmement ? Et, enfin, autre question qui rejoint celle-là, croyez-vous ou ne croyez-vous pas à la sincérité de M. Gorbatchev ?\nM. CHIRAC : Moi, je ne fais pas de procès d'intention et je pense qu'il est, de surcroît, de l'intérêt de M. Gorbatchev de diminuer les charges que la production considérable et l'entretien d'armements tout à fait excessifs fait peser sur la vie des Soviétiques. Donc, j'imagine qu'il est de bonne foi. Je suis néanmoins extrêmement vigilant car je reste convaincu que jamais un dirigeant soviétique n'abandonnera son objectif qui est de neutraliser l'Europe occidentale. Jamais. Et, par conséquent, je considère que nous ne devons pas, dans l'état actuel des choses, baisser la garde, que nous devons conserver tous les moyens permettant d'être suffisamment dissuasifs pour éviter toute tentation d'aventure de la part des Russes ou de quiconque d'autre.\nM. MITTERAND : Le problème n'est pas, madame Cotta, de savoir si M. Gorbatchev est sincère, le problème est que tout puisse se dérouler sur la scène du monde comme si il était sincère. Je veux dire qu'il soit tenu d'être sincère. Voilà pourquoi il faut à la fois approuver ses démarches en faveur du désarmement et en même temps il faut prendre nos précautions pour assurer la sécurité de l'Europe et la nôtre. Et de ce point de vue j'approuve tout à fait l'Accord de Washington qui a vu les deux plus grands pays du monde s'entendre sur une réduction de leur arsenal nucléaire. J'en demande davantage et j'estime que la priorité aujourd'hui est au désarmement des forces conventionnelles entre l'Est et l'Ouest, c'est-à-dire à la frontière des deux Allemagne et de la Tchécoslovaquie et de l'Allemagne où les Soviétiques disposent d'une puissance infiniment supérieure à la nôtre, alors on saura si M. Gorbatchev est tout à fait sincère.\nMme. COTTA : Le désarmement, monsieur Chirac ?\nM. CHIRAC : Sur ce désarmement, je considère que l'Europe ne doit pas aujourd'hui, en termes nucléaires, aller au-delà des accords conclus. Sans cela, ce serait dangereux. Notre pays a été assuré par la dissuasion nucléaire. Dissuasion nucléaire à laquelle vous êtes aujourd'hui très attaché, M. Mitterrand et je m'en réjouis, mais je voudrais tout de même rappeler qu'elle a été inspirée et mise en oeuvre par le général de Gaulle, que nous lui devons à ce titre notre capacité de grande puissance, qu'elle a été combattue par vous, et je me demande si, en 1965, vous aviez été Président de la République, nous n'aurions pas de force nucléaire. Vous voyez combien les choses peuvent changer le destin d'un pays, à l'occasion d'une élection. Pour le reste, j'estime que la priorité, aujourd'hui, c'est la réduction des arsenaux centraux, russes et américains, qui sont les plus dangereux naturellement et qui nous prendraient en otages si nous n'avions pas les moyens de dissuasion nécessaires et, d'autre part, la réduction du déséquilibre qui existe sur le plan des armes classiques et chimiques entre les pays de l'Est et les pays de l'Alliance atlantique.\nM. MITTERAND : Je dirai simplement un mot, c'est que M. le Premier ministre m'a posé une question importante par rapport à la notion de force de frappe, je veux dire à la stratégie de dissuasion nucléaire. Voyez-vous, monsieur le Premier ministre, je suis très sensible, très attaché à la continuité de la politique extérieure de la France et j'assume cette continuité ; elle s'est appelée de Gaulle, Pompidou, Giscard d'Estaing, elle porte aujourd'hui mon nom. Et est-ce que vous croyez vraiment qu'à 30 ans de distance, je vais bousculer les données de l'équilibre international et les conditions de la sécurité française, c'est-à-dire le fondement de notre défense nationale, sur lesquelles notre armée est organisée pour avoir raison 30 ans plus tard.\nM. CHIRAC : Et d'ailleurs vous auriez tort.\nM. MITTERAND : Oui, voyez, j'aurais sûrement tort ! J'aurais sûrement tort ! La continuité de la France doit être assumée par tous ceux qui en ont la charge, en 30 ans il se passe beaucoup de choses et j'en tiens compte. Et je ne veux pas que, d'un gouvernement à l'autre, on passe son temps à défaire ce qui a été fait.\nM. VANNIER : Messieurs, j'aimerais vous poser une question sur le problème des otages. Trois Français sont encore retenus en otage.\nM. CHIRAC : Si vous me permettez, avant les otages. Je suis, naturellement, très favorable à cette continuité, surtout lorsqu'elle s'inscrit dans le droit fil d'une conviction qui a toujours été celle de ma famille politique. Mais elle m'inspire, tout de même, une réflexion. Si, monsieur Mitterrand, vous aviez été élu beaucoup plus tôt, vous auriez pu l'être, nous n'aurions pas nos institutions d'aujourd'hui, vous les avez combattues avec beaucoup de violence dans le propos comme dans l'action, nous n'aurions pas de force de frappe, vous l'avez combattue avec une très grande violence, vous l'assumez aujourd'hui et je m'en réjouis,vous l'assumez d'ailleurs avec enthousiasme, et j'en suis content, mais vous l'avez combattue avec une très grande violence . Si je rapproche cela, et à l'époque les Français étaient favorables à nos institutions dans leur immense majorité, à notre défense dans leur majorité, vous avez, là, tenté de les diviser,de la politique faite en 1981 en faveur du peuple de gauche, de la querelle de l'école que l'on évoquait tout à l'heure et puis, alors, vous m'avez dit : 'Est-ce que vous voulez la raviver ?' Dieu sait que non. Mais, vous, vous l'avez fait. Tout cela me conduit à m'inquiéter parce que vos actions passées ont été marquées ou par une erreur d'appréciation ou par une action de division, et, aujourd'hui, vous me dites : 'Je suis, moi, le rassembleur'. C'est curieux. Et je me dis si, par hasard, vous avez raison cette fois-ci, après une si longue carrière, c'est évidemment possible, mais si une fois encore, vous aviez une mauvaise appréciation, c'est dangereux !\nM. MITTERAND : Monsieur le Premier ministre, j'ai été pendant 24 ans dans l'opposition, ce n'est pas diviser la France que d'exercer son droit démocratique d'être pour ou contre. Et pendant ces 24 ans-là, l'histoire s'est faite ou a été faite par d'autres que par moi. Et voilà qu'en 1981, je suis devenu le premier responsable : à ce moment-là j'avais à choisir entre la satisfaction personnelle de défaire ce qui avait été fait et l'erreur grave, au regard de mon pays, de vouloir à 25 ans ou 30 ans de distance tout reprendre à zéro. J'ai préféré servir la France comme je le concevais. Et de vous retourner ce raisonnement : si vous aviez été eh bien, il n'y aurait pas d'Europe aujourd'hui, car vous étiez contre. Vous voyez, on peut changer.",
    "summaries": [
        {
            "number": "1",
            "text_en": "In this debate, Jacques Chirac and François Mitterrand discussed foreign policy, in particular Russia and the issue of disarmament. Jacques Chirac explained that he was not accusing Russia of anything, but that he remained vigilant, as he believed that all Soviet leaders wanted to neutralise Western Europe. Jacques Chirac felt that France's deterrent capabilities should be maintained. François Mitterrand agreed with Jacques Chirac and deplored the fact that, whether Gorbachev wished to disarm or not, nobody took into account the fact that he was not sincere. François Mitterrand wanted to ensure the security of Europe and France, and wanted to see the disarmament of conventional forces between East and West. Jacques Chirac did not wish to disarm beyond the agreements reached. Jacques Chirac recalls that François Mitterrand fought against nuclear deterrence and asks whether France would have nuclear weapons today if he had defeated Charles de Gaulle. Jacques Chirac wanted the central arsenals to be disarmed, and he wanted the imbalance in terms of conventional and chemical weapons between the countries of Eastern Europe and the Atlantic alliance to be reduced. François Mitterrand followed on from the President's decisions.",
            "text_fr": "Dans ce débat, Jacques Chirac et François Mitterrand discutent de la politique étrangère, en particulier sur la Russie et la question du désarmement. Jacques Chirac explique qu'il ne fait pas de procès d'intention à la Russie, mais qu'il reste vigilant, car pour lui, tout les dirigeant soviétiques souhaitent neutraliser l'europe occidentale. Jacques Chirac estime qu'il faut garder les moyens de dissuasion français. François Mitterrand s'accorde avec Jacques Chirac et déplore que, que Gorbatchev souhaite désarmer où non, personne ne prends en compte le cas où il n'est pas sincère. François Mitterrand souhaite assurer la sécurité de l'europe et de la france, et souhaite avoir un désarmement des forces conventionnelles entre l'est et l'ouest. Jacques Chirac ne souhaite pas désarmer au delà des accords conclus. Jacques Chirac rappelle que François Mitterrand combattait la dissuasion nucléaire et demande si la france aurait aujourd'hui l'arme nucléaire si il avait battu Charles de Gaulle. Jacques Chirac souhaite que les arsenaux centraux soient désarmés, et il souhaite une réduction du déséquilibre sur le plan des armes classiques et chimique entre les pays de l'est et de l'alliance atlantique. François Mitterrand s'inscrit dans la continuité des décisions présidentielles.",
            "nb_words_en": "191",
            "nb_words_fr": "207",
            "nb_characters_en": "1240",
            "nb_characters_fr": "1288"
        },
        {
            "number": "2",
            "text_en": "In this debate, Jacques Chirac and François Mitterrand are discussing foreign policy, particularly concerning Russia and the disarmament issue. The two politicians are being questioned about the sincerity of Mikhail Gorbachev regarding disarmament and Europe's involvement in the negotiations. Chirac expresses his vigilance and concern regarding the Soviet objective to neutralize Western Europe and believes that one should not let their guard down. He believes that nuclear deterrence is necessary to prevent any adventurous temptations from the Russians. Mitterrand, on his part, supports the efforts towards disarmament and calls for further reductions in conventional forces between the East and the West to ensure the security of Europe and France. He emphasizes the need to take precautions to safeguard Europe and France. Chirac reminds that France must maintain its nuclear deterrence capabilities to protect its interests. Mitterrand, on the other hand, assures that he is committed to the continuity of France's foreign policy, which bears his name.",
            "text_fr": "Dans ce débat, Jacques Chirac et François Mitterrand discutent de la politique étrangère, en particulier sur la Russie et la question du désarmement. Les deux hommes politiques sont interrogés sur la sincérité de Mikhaïl Gorbatchev en matière de désarmement et sur l'implication de l'Europe dans les négociations. Chirac exprime sa vigilance et son inquiétude quant à l'objectif soviétique de neutraliser l'Europe occidentale et considère qu'il ne faut pas baisser la garde. Il estime que la dissuasion nucléaire est nécessaire pour éviter toute tentation d'aventure de la part des Russes. Mitterrand, pour sa part, approuve les démarches en faveur du désarmement et demande plus de réductions des forces conventionnelles entre l'Est et l'Ouest pour assurer la sécurité de l'Europe et de la France. Il insiste sur la nécessité de prendre des précautions pour assurer la sécurité de l'Europe et de la France. Chirac rappelle que la France doit conserver ses moyens de dissuasion nucléaire pour protéger ses intérêts. Mitterrand, quant à lui, assure qu'il est attaché à la continuité de la politique extérieure de la France, qui porte son nom.",
            "nb_words_en": "158",
            "nb_words_fr": "190",
            "nb_characters_en": "1061",
            "nb_characters_fr": "1141"
        },
        {
            "number": "3",
            "text_en": "In this debate, François Mitterrand and Jacques Chirac are discussing foreign policy. The presenter begins by asking whether Europeans have been sufficiently consulted on disarmament, and also inquires about the candidates' thoughts on the sincerity of Gorbachev. Jacques Chirac explains that he isn't making any presumptions, but he remains cautious. François Mitterrand agrees and explains that his priority is disarmament. Jacques Chirac clarifies that he is against European disarmament, as he believes nuclear deterrence is what protects France. He suggests that François Mitterrand would probably have refused nuclear weapons if he had been able to. François Mitterrand continues by explaining that he is continuing the work of previous governments and that he was merely doing his job as a representative of the opposition.",
            "text_fr": "Dans ce débat, François Miterrand et Jacques Chirac discutent de politique étrangère. La présentatrice débute en demandant sur les européens ont été assez consulté sur le désarmement, et demande aussi ce que les candidats pensent de la sincérité de Gorbatchev. Jacques Chirac explique qu'il ne fait pas de procès d'intention, mais qu'il reste sur ses gardes. François Miterrand s'accorde, et explique que sa priorité est le désarmement. Jacques chirac explique qu'il est contre un désarmement européen, car il considère que la dissuasion nucléaire est ce qui protège la France. Il explique que François Miterrand aurait probablement refusé l'arme nucléaire si il l'avait pu. François Miterrand continue en expliquant qu'il est dans la continuité des gouvernement, et qu'il ne faisait que son travail en tant que représentant de l'opposition.",
            "nb_words_en": "124",
            "nb_words_fr": "138",
            "nb_characters_en": "830",
            "nb_characters_fr": "841"
        },
        {
            "number": "4",
            "text_en": "In this debate, Chirac and Mitterrand discuss international relations, on the occasion of an upcoming meeting between Gorbachev and Reagan in Moscow. Chirac believes Gorbachev is sincere in his approach of openness; the Russian leader would indeed have no other choice but to reduce the state's burden on the military. Nevertheless, it is advisable to remain cautious, as the Soviet objective remains the neutralization of Western Europe. Mitterrand also thinks it's necessary to ensure the defense of Europe, which is why he welcomes Washington's agreement on nuclear arsenal reduction. Now, it's necessary to go further and propose disarmament of conventional forces on both sides of the Iron Curtain. Chirac disagrees; one should not go beyond the concluded agreements. Mitterrand then expresses his attachment to the French foreign policy vision inherited from General de Gaulle. Chirac is pleased about this, but recalls that Mitterrand had once opposed this vision. The two men generally agree on the role that France must play internationally, even if Mitterrand hasn't always been on the same page as Chirac and wishes to go further in the disarmament of European actors.",
            "text_fr": "Dans ce débat, Chirac et Mitterrand discutent des relations internationales, à l’occasion d’une rencontre prochaine entre Gorbatchev et Reagan à Moscou. Chirac croit Gorbatchev sincère dans sa démarche d’ouverture ; le dirigeant russe n’aurait en effet d’autre choix que celui de diminuer la charge de l’État sur l’armée. Néanmoins, il convient de rester prudent, car l’objectif soviétique reste la neutralisation de l’Europe occidentale. Mitterrand pense également qu’il est nécessaire d’assurer la défense de l’Europe, c’est pourquoi il se réjouit de l’accord de Washington sur la réduction de l’arsenal nucléaire. Il faut maintenant aller plus loin et proposer un désarmement des forces conventionnelles de part et d’autre du rideau de fer. Chirac est en désaccord ; il ne faut pas aller au-delà des accords conclus. Mitterrand exprime ensuite son attachement à la vision de la politique extérieure française héritée du Général de Gaulle. Chirac s’en réjouit, mais rappelle toutefois que Mitterrand avait autrefois combattu cette vision. Les deux hommes sont globalement d’accord sur le rôle que la France doit tenir à l’international, même si Mitterrand n’a pas toujours été sur la même ligne que celle de Chirac, et qu’il souhaite aller plus loin dans le désarmement des acteurs européens.",
            "nb_words_en": "189",
            "nb_words_fr": "218",
            "nb_characters_en": "1179",
            "nb_characters_fr": "1294"
        }
    ],
    "nb_words_en": "1095",
    "nb_words_fr": "1286",
    "nb_characters_en": "6216",
    "nb_characters_fr": "7106"
}