{
    "file_name": "Bardella_Darmanin_Partie 4 - Impôts",
    "source_dataset": "0",
    "language": "1",
    "text_en": "GD: On the other hand, what is very interesting is that the twenty-one-year-old nurse who probably doesn't pay taxes, or pays very little, she will experience a great injustice. This is the issue with the National Front, because the financial professional who works at McKinsey, perhaps, who is under thirty, will not pay income tax, because the problem with Madame Le Pen is that individuals under thirty don't pay taxes. Mr. Mbappé, and the McKinsey executive who earns forty thousand a month because he works at Société Générale, won't pay income tax.\nJB: Exactly.\nGD: That's what it is, the National Front, it's social injustice.\nJB: Yes, it's all for the young, for the youth, and they will exempt individuals under thirty from income tax to retain the elites, even if they generally don't vote for you. But we want to keep them and we trust them.\nGD: The heirs, it's not me, I think.\nJB: You can't hide your contempt.\nGD: But there is really a strong social injustice in thinking that the twenty-eight-year-old banking executive, the twenty-eight-year-old young trader, the twenty-eight-year-old footballer, who earns a lot of money, and good for him, with you, he will pay more taxes.\nJB: He will pay wealth tax.\nGD: With you, solidarity between the rich and the poor will be replaced by, um, a demagogic measure that under thirty means no longer paying taxes.\nJB: You were the ones who eliminated the ISF, you were the ones who implemented the flat tax.\nP1: So that those watching can understand what both of you are discussing, clarify the measure you are talking about. No taxes, zero income tax, for all those under thirty?\nJB: Yes, because you see, we don't want there to be a hundred and sixty thousand young people, a number that was given by Les Échos, forced to leave abroad every year because they can't find the right environment to live in France. So for us, French youth, this is a very strong measure, two billion euros. It's once again quantified in the plan, I have the figures with me, which will allow young people to say, if you stay in France, we trust you, and we'll do better. We will exempt all young people under thirty who start their own business in France from corporate taxes for five years. It's a great message of confidence in French youth. We will do it, and we stand by this budgetary choice, whether you like it or not, Mr. Darmanin.\nGD: But Mr. Bardella, first of all, you'll agree with me that there are fewer young people under thirty who start a business, immediately pay corporate taxes. I think there are fewer of them than the residents of a town with a population of a hundred. You see, because to pay corporate taxes, you're not a small SME, a craftsman, or a starting startup. Corporate taxes are paid when you start having significant revenue. Your proposal is amusing, but it doesn't exist in the real world.\nJB: That will please the entrepreneurs who are listening to us.\nGD: An entrepreneur under thirty who has created a business and pays corporate taxes because they earn a lot of money, I find it normal for them to pay corporate taxes. I have no problem with people paying taxes.\nJB: True, it's better to cut housing assistance and have young people stand in line at food banks during the covid.\nGD: It was you who exempted traders from taxes. So, do...\nJB: If they are traders, they will pay the wealth tax. I think you haven't read our proposal before coming here.\nGD: You know, at twenty-eight, twenty-nine years old, a trader who works at Société Générale with the National Front, they won't pay taxes anymore. At thirty-one, the self-employed nurse, the hospital orderly, they will pay taxes. That's the National Front's project.\nJB: Targeting in terms of taxation, when you eliminate the wealth tax for the ultra-rich, the flat tax, when you give a three percent increase in purchasing power to the top one percent of French citizens, you're less bothered by targeting in that direction? When you cut housing assistance for young people, you're not bothered; when you increase taxes on fuels for working French families, you're not bothered by targeting. So, we make fiscal choices for the working classes and the youth of France.\nGD: Mr. Bardella, we can discuss the measures we've taken with President Macron without any problem, but first, I'm talking about yours. We agree that a nurse, or a municipal police officer, or any police officer at the age of thirty-one who pays income tax, will continue to pay it under your plan, but the twenty-eight-year-old trader at Société Générale won't pay income tax.\nJB: They won't pay income tax, but they will pay the wealth tax on financial assets.\nGD: Starting from how much? That doesn't mean anything.\nJB: And on their real estate assets.\nGD: No, but the person who earns twenty thousand, thirty thousand euros, I see them in the newspapers every day, they don't only own real estate assets. Answer my simple question. At thirty-one or thirty years old, the nurse or municipal police officer will pay income tax. At twenty-eight...\nJB: We tax financial assets rather than heritage, but that might displease your McKinsey friends.",
    "text_fr": "GD : Par contre ce qui est très intéressant, c'est que l'infirmière de vingt et un ans qui paye sans doute pas d'impôts, ou peu, elle, elle va avoir une grande injustice. C’est que le problème du front national, parce que le cadre financier qui travaille chez mckinsey, peut-être, qui aura moins de trente ans, lui paiera pas d'impôt sur le revenu, parce que le problème de Madame le pen c’est qu’à moins de trente ans on paie pas d’impôt. Monsieur Mbappé, et le cadre de McKinsey qui gagne quarante mille par mois car il travaille à la société générale, plus d’impôt sur le revenu.\nJB : Exactement\nGD : Voilà ce que c'est, le front national, c’est l’injustice sociale.\nJB : Oui, c’est tout pour les jeunes, pour la jeunesse, et va exonérer d'impôt sur le revenu les jeunes de moins de trente ans pour garder les élites, même si généralement ils votent plus pour vous. Mais on souhaite les garder et on leur fait confiance.\nGD : Les héritiers, c'est pas moi je pense.\nJB : Vous arrivez pas à dissimuler votre mépris.\nGD : Mais il y a vraiment une injustice sociale très forte à penser que le cadre bancaire de vingt-huit ans, le jeune trader de vingt-huit ans, le footballeur de vingt-huit ans, qui gagne beaucoup d'argent, et tant mieux pour lui, avec vous il paiera plus d’impôts.\nJB : Il paiera l'impôt sur la fortune financière\nGD : Avec vous, la solidarité entre les riches et les plus pauvres sera remplacée par, euh, une mesure démagogique qui a moins de trente ans fait qu'on ne paiera plus d’impôts.\nJB:  C’est vous qui avez supprimé l’ISF, c'est vous qui avez fait la flat taxe\nP1 : Pour que ceux qui nous regardent comprennent ce dont vous êtes tous les deux en train de parler, précisez la mesure dont vous êtes entrain de parler. Pas d'impôts, zéro impôt sur le revenu, pour tous les moins de trente ans ?\nJB : Oui,  parceque, vous voyez, on veut pas qu'il y ait cent soixante mille jeunes, c'est un chiffre qui a été donné par les échos, soient contraints de partir à l'étranger chaque années parce qu'il ne trouvent pas en france le cadre pour vivre. Donc nous, la jeunesse française c'est une mesure très forte, deux milliards d'euros. C'est encore une fois chiffré dans le projet, j’ai le chiffrage avec moi qui va permettre aux jeunes de dire, si vous restez en france, on vous fait confiance, et on va faire mieux. On va exonérer d'impôt sur les sociétés pendant cinq ans tous jeune de moins de trente ans qui monte son entreprise en france. C’est un formidable message de confiance dans la jeunesse française. Nous, le ferons, et nous assumons ce choix budgétaires, ne vous en déplaise, monsieur darmanin.\nGD : Non mais monsieur Bardella, d'abord, vous m’accorderez que des jeunes de moins trente ans qui créent une entreprise, qui, tout de suite, payent l'impôt sur les sociétés, je pense, euh, qu'il y en a moins que les habitants d'une commune de cent habitants. Vous voyez parce que, pour payer l'impôt sur les sociétés, on est pas une petite pme, un artisan ou une start-up qui commence. L'impôt sur les société ça se paie quand vous commencez à avoir un chiffre d’affaires important. Votre mesure elle est rigolote, mais elle n’existe pas dans le monde réel.\nJB : Ca fera plaisir aux entrepreneurs qui nous écoutent.\nGD : Un entrepreneur de moins de trente ans qui a créé une entreprise qui paie l'impôt sur les sociétés parce qu'il gagne beaucoup d'argent, moi, je trouve ça normal qu’il paye l'impôt sur les sociétés. Moi j'ai aucun problème, avec le fait que les gens payent des impôts.\nJB : C’est vrai que c’est mieux de baisser les apl et de faire que les jeunes font la queue devant les banques alimentaires pendant le covid.\nGD : C’est vous qui avez exonéré les traders d'impôts. Donc, faites\nJB : S’ils sont traders ils paieront l'impôt sur la fortune financière. Je pense que vous n'avez pas lu notre projet avant de venir.\nGD : Vous savez, à vingt-huit ans, à vingt-neuf ans, un trader qui travaille à la société générale avec le front national, Il ne payera plus d'impôts. à trente et un ans, l'infirmière libérale, le brancardier de l'hôpital, lui, payera des impôts. Voilà, c'est, c'est ça, le projet du front national.\nJB: Le ciblage en matière de fiscalité quand vous supprimez l'isf pour les ultras riches, la flat tax, quand vous faites gagner trois pour cent de pouvoir d'achat au pourcent de français les plus riches, ça vous dérange moins le ciblage dans ce sens ? Quand vous baissez les apl pour les jeunes, ça vous dérange pas, quand vous augmentez les taxes sur les carburants pour les familles française qui bossent, ça ne vous dérange pas le ciblage. Donc nous faisons des choix fiscaux pour les classes populaires et les jeunes de france.\nGD: Monsieur Bardella, on parlera des mesures qu'on a prise avec le président macron sans aucun problème, mais d'abord, je parle des vôtres. On est bien d'accord qu'une infirmière, ou un policier municipal, ou un policier tout court de trente et un ans, qui paie l'impôt sur le revenu, il continuera à payer avec vous, mais le trader de la société générale, de vingt-huit ans, lui, paiera pas d'impôt sur le revenu.\nJB : Il ne paiera pas d'impôt sur le revenu, mais il paiera l'impôt sur la fortune financière\nGD : A partir de combien ? Ca veut rien dire.\nJB : Et sur ses actifs immobiliers\nGD : Non, mais le type qui gagne vingt mille, trente mille euros, je les vois tous les jours dans les journaux, ils ne sont pas propriétaires seulement d'actifs immobiliers. Répondez à ma question simple. A trente et un an à trente, l'infirmière, ou policier municipal, vous paiera l'impôt sur le revenu. À vingt-huit ans\nJB : On taxe les actifs financiers plutôt que le patrimoine, mais ça déplait peut-être à vos amis de McKinsey.",
    "nb_characters": 5143,
    "nb_words": 947,
    "summaries": [
        {
            "number": "1",
            "text_en": "In this debate, Jordan Bardella and Gérald Darmanin discuss Jordan Bardella's measure to abolish tax for under-thirty-year-olds. Gérald Darmanin explains that this is an unfair measure, which benefits the richest. Jordan Bardella explained that the rassemblement national wanted to help young people and motivate them to stay in France. Jordan Bardella explained that the wealthiest will always pay the financial wealth tax. Jordan Bardella explained that he wanted young people who set up their own businesses to be exempt from corporation tax for five years. Gérald Darmanin explained that it is rare for new companies to have to pay corporation tax, and that a young entrepreneur who has a business that has to pay corporation tax should do so. Jordan Bardella explains that the injustice of taxes comes from Gérald Darmanin's government, with the abolition of isf and flat tax, while increasing fuel taxes. Jordan Bardella also explains that the richest will pay taxes on property and financial assets.",
            "text_fr": "Dans ce débat, Jordan Bardella et Gérald Darmanin discutent de la mesure de suppression des impôts pour les moins de trente ans de Jordan Bardella. Gérald Darmanin explique que c'est une mesure injuste, qui avantage les plus riche. Jordan Bardella explique que le rassemblement national souhaite aider les jeunes, et les motiver à rester en france. Jordan Bardella explique que les plus aisés paieront toujours l'impôt sur la fortune financière. Jordan Bardella explique qu'il veut que les jeunes qui créent leurs entreprises soient exonérés d'impôts sur les sociétés pendant cinq ans. Gérald Darmanin explique qu'il est rare que des nouvelles sociétés doivent payer l'impôt sur les sociétés, et qu'un jeune entrepreneur qui a une entreprise qui doit payer l'impôt sur les sociétés devrait le faire. Jordan Bardella explique que l'injustice des impôts vient du gouvernement de Gérald Darmanin, avec la suppression de l'isf et de la flat tax, tout en augmentant les taxes sur les carburants. Jordan Bardella explique aussi que les plus riches paieront des impôts sur les actifs immobiliers et financiers.",
            "nb_characters": 1006,
            "nb_words": 164
        },
        {
            "number": "2",
            "text_en": "Gérald Darmanin and Jordan Bardella debate the rassemblement national's proposal not to tax the incomes of under-30s. According to Gérald Darmanin, this measure would create a social injustice that would benefit the elites. Jordan Bardella defends this proposal, arguing that it will keep young people in France and encourage them to set up their own businesses in France. He also wants to exempt the businesses of French people under the age of thirty from corporation tax. According to Jordan Bardella, this measure is not unfair because the richest people will have to pay wealth tax as well as taxes on real estate and financial assets.",
            "text_fr": "Gérald Darmanin et Jordan Bardella débattent de la proposition du rassemblement nationoal de ne pas taxer les revenus des moins de 30 ans. Selon Gérald Darmanin, cette mesure créera une injustice sociale qui bénéficiera les élites. Jordan Bardella défend cette proposition en argumentant qu'elle permettra de garder les jeunes en France et de les inciter à créer leur entreprise en France. Il souhaite aussi exonérer les entreprises des français de moins de trente ans d'impôts sur les sociétés. Selon Jordan Bardella, cette mesure n'est pas injuste car les plus riches devront payer l'impôt sur la fortune ainsi que les impôts sur les biens immobiliers et financiers.",
            "nb_characters": 640,
            "nb_words": 107
        },
        {
            "number": "3",
            "text_en": "In this debate, Gérald Darmanin and Jordan Bardella discuss the Rassemblement National's proposal to exempt under-thirty-year-olds from income tax. According to Gérald Darmanin, this proposal is unfair, because it benefits the richest young people instead of targeting French people who need help. Jordan Bardella explained that this choice was made to convince young people to stay in France, and that the richest would still pay tax on financial wealth and on financial and property assets. He also explained that young people who set up businesses would not have to pay corporation tax. Gérald Darmanin thought that a young person who has a business that has to pay corporation tax should do so. Jordan Bardella replied that it was Gérald Darmanin's government that abolished the isf and introduced the flat tax.",
            "text_fr": "Dans ce débat, Gérald Darmanin et Jordan Bardella discutent de la proposition du rassemblement national sur l'éxonération d'impôts sur le revenus des moins de trente ans. Selon Gérald Darmanin, cette proposition est injuste, car elle avantage les jeunes les plus riche au lieu de cibler les français qui ont besoin d'aide. Jordan Bardella explique que ce choix est fait pour convaincre les jeunes de rester en france, et que les plus riches paieront toujours l'impôt sur la fortune financière et sur les actifs financiers et immobiliers. Il explique aussi que les jeunes qui créent des entreprises n'auront pas besoin de payer l'impôt sur les sociétés. Gérald Darmanin trouve qu'un jeune qui a une entreprise qui doit payer l'impôt sur les sociétés devrait le faire. Jordan Bardella répond que c'est le gouvernement de Gérald Darmanin qui a supprimé l'isf et qui a mis en place la flat tax.",
            "nb_characters": 815,
            "nb_words": 135
        },
        {
            "number": "4",
            "text_en": "In this debate, Gérald Darmanin and Jordan Bardella discuss the Rassemblement National's proposal to exempt under-thirty-year-olds from income tax. Gérald Darmanin sees this measure as one of social injustice, with very rich traders and footballers being exempt from tax, while the more precarious older French people will have to pay tax. Jordan Bardella explains that this is a conscious position, to convince the French elite to stay in France. He points out that the richest young people will still have to pay the ISF, which has been abolished by Gérald Darmanin. Jordan Bardella is also proposing to abolish corporation tax for five years for all young people under the age of thirty who set up a business in France. This measure is symbolic for Gérald Darmanin, as very few young people set up a business that is lucrative enough to have to pay corporation tax, and if they had to pay it, it would be normal to do so. Jordan Bardella criticised Gérald Darmanin on the issue of social justice, pointing out the cuts to the APL and the queues outside food banks during covid. He supports the working classes, and points out that property assets will always be taxed.",
            "text_fr": "Dans ce débat, Gérald Darmanin et Jordan Bardella discutent de la proposition du rassemblement national sur l'éxonération d'impôts sur le revenus des moins de trente ans. Pour Gérald Darmanin, cette mesure est une mesure d'injustice sociale, des trader et footballer très riche seront exonérés d'impôts, alors que français plus précaires plus vieux devront en payer. Jordan Bardella explique que c'est une position assumée, afin de convaincre les élites françaises de rester en France. Il rappelle que les jeunes les plus riches devront toujours payer l'ISF, qui a été supprimée par Gérald Darmanin. Jordan Bardella propose aussi de supprimer l'impôt sur les sociétés pendant cinq ans pour tous les jeunes de moins de trente ans qui montent leur entreprise en france. Cette mesure est symbolique pour Gérald Darmanin, très peu de jeunes ont une entreprise assez lucrative à leur création pour devoir payer l'impôt sur les sociétés, et si tant est qu'elle devraient le payer, il serait normal de le faire. Jordan Bardella critique Gérald Darmanin sur la justice sociale, rappellant la baisse des APL et les queues devant les banques alimentaires pendant le covid. Il soutient les classes populaires, et rappelle que les actifs immobiliers seront toujours taxés.",
            "nb_characters": 1171,
            "nb_words": 204
        }
    ]
}